# Data-Science-Projects

## Rental Bike managment System

Problem statment:- In this project, you are asked to combine historical usage patterns with
weather data in order to forecast hourly bike rental demand.

Bike Sharing systems are a means of renting bicycles where the process of
obtaining membership, rental, and bike return is automated via a network of
kiosk locations throughout a city. Using these systems, people are able to
rent a bike from one location and return it to a different place on an
as-needed basis. Currently, there are over 500 bike-sharing programs
around the world.

The data generated by these systems makes them attractive for
researchers because the duration of travel, departure location, arrival
location, and time elapsed is explicitly recorded. Bike sharing systems
therefore function as a sensor network, which can be used for studying
mobility in a city.

# How good are your predictions?
### Evaluation Metric

The Evaluation metric for this project is Root Mean Squared Logarithmic
Error (RMSLE). The RMSLE is calculated as:

For the ith sample, Squared Logarithmic Error is calculated as SLE = (log(prediction + 1) - log(actual + 1))^2. 
RMSLE is then sqrt(mean(squared logarithmic errors)). Note the '+1' in the calculation of SLE which avoids taking the logarithm of 0 for data which may include 0s.

RMSLE - Root Mean Squared Log Error .
This metric is used when the Target variable is converted into Log(Target).
so instead of looking at RMSLE, you can look for RMSE (generally we use this). You can convert the predictions to ypred = exp(predictions)
and then np.sqrt(mean_squared_error(y_test, ypred)) will give the final RMSE.

